feat: add stochastic fem example (#3648)
ansys/pymapdl: doc/source/examples/extended_examples/sfem/stochastic_fem.rst

spatial variability. The finite element method is undoubtedly the most widely used tool for solving deterministic
physical problems today and to account for randomness and uncertainty in the modeling of engineering systems,
the stochastic finite element method (SFEM) was introduced.

The stochastic finite element method (SFEM) extends the classical deterministic finite element approach
to a stochastic framework, offering various techniques for calculating response variability. Among these,
the Monte Carlo simulation (MCS) stands out as the most prominent method. Renowned for its versatility and
ease of implementation, MCS can be applied to virtually any type of problem in stochastic analysis.

Random variables vs stochastic processes
----------------------------------------
A distinction between random variables and stochastic processes is attempted in this section. Explaining these
concepts is important since they are used for modelling the system randomness. Random variables are easier to
understand from elementary probability theory, the same cannot be said for stochastic processes. Readers are

> advised to consult books on SFEM if the explanation here seems too brief.

Author: References added.

:math:`\{X(t), t \in I\}` or simply :math:`X`. In this way, a stochastic process generalizes the concept of a random variable,
as it assigns to each outcome :math:`\theta` of the experiment a function :math:`X(t, \theta)`, known as a realization or sample
function. Lastly, if :math:`X` is indexed by some spatial coordinate :math:`s \in D \subseteq \mathbb{R}^n` rather than time :math:`t`,
then :math:`\{X(s), s \in D\}` is called a random field.

Practical example
+++++++++++++++++
Now, consider the material property of the beam, such as Young's modulus :math:`E(x)`, which may vary randomly along
the length of the beam :math:`x`.  Instead of being a single random value, :math:`E(x)` is a random field—its value
is uncertain at each point along the domain, and it changes continuously across the beam. Mathematically, :math:`E(x)`
is a random field:

.. math:: E(x) : x \in [0,L] \longrightarrow \mathbb{R}

Here:

* :math:`x` is the spatial coordinate along the length of the beam (:math:`x \in [0,L]`).
* :math:`E(x)` is a random variable at each point :math:`x`, and its randomness is described
  by a covariance function or an autocorrelation function.

> For example, :math:`E(x)` could be a Gaussian random field, in which case it has the stationarity

Reviewer: Chechk the spelling issues raised by Vale CICD.

Also, when you are ready to merge, get Kathy Piper to have a look at the document. She is our document specialist. You tag her here, `PipKat` is his user name. I would also ping her using Teams.

Author: So are false positives e.g., stationarity. Maybe there is a way to list words that should be accepted?

Reviewer 2: @moe-ad You can add words that should be accepted to the accept.txt file here: doc\styles\config\vocabularies\ANSYS

Author: Thank you @PipKat

   we be that the above structure meets this requirement?

.. note::
  This example really emphasizes how PyMAPDL can help to supercharge workflows. At a very high level, what will be done
  in subsequent sections involves using python libraries to handle computations related to the stochasticity of the problem, and
  using MAPDL to run the necessary simulations, all within the comfort of a python environment.

Evaluating the young modulus
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Firstly, we implement code that allows us to represent the zero-mean Gaussian field :math:`f`. This simply means solving
:math:numref:`cosine equation` and :math:numref:`sine equation`, then substituting calculated values into
:math:numref:`cosine terms` and :math:numref:`sine terms` to obtain the constant terms in those equations. The
number of retained terms :math:`P` and :math:`Q` in :math:numref:`approximation` can be automatically determined
by structuring our code to stop computing values when :math:`\lambda_{c,n}, \lambda_{s,n}` become lower than a
desired accuracy level. The implementation is as follows:

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python

>   :lines: 1-173

Author: I didn't account for pre-commit adding license headers when I pushed, my bad.

The next step is to put this all together in a function that expresses :math:`f` using equation :math:numref:`approximation`
as follows:

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 176-236

And then the function for evaluating the young modulus itself is straight forward:

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 239-266

Realizations of the young modulus
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
We can now generate sample realizations of the young's modulus to see how they look like:

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 269-317

> .. figure:: young_modulus_realizations.png

Author: It truly is. I will correct that, but first I need to run 5000 simulations... 😜

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 532-534

The computed probability is aprroximately 99%, which is a measure of how well the structure satisfies the design
requirement.

.. note::
   The implementation above was split into several functions so users can modify practically any aspect of the problem
   statement with minimal edits to the code for testing out other scenarios. For example, different structural geometry,
   different mesh size, different loading condition etc.

Improving simulation speed via multi-threading
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
One of the main drawbacks of MCS is the number of simulations required. In the example above, 5000 simulations can take quite
some time to run on a single MAPDL instance. To speed things up, the :class:`~ansys.mapdl.core.pool.MapdlPool` class can be utilized
to run simulations across multiple MAPDL instances. The implementation is as follows:

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 537-676

To run simulations over 10 MAPDL instances, the function above is simply called with appropriate arguments:

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 679-689

> Now the simulations will be completed much faster.

Reviewer: It will be nice to add some comparison about the time taken... I guess it should be something like `time_taken_one_instance/n_instances` but I think there is some overhead.

Author: Noted.

.. _stochastic_fem_example:

Stochastic finite element method with PyMAPDL
=============================================

> This example leverages PyMAPDL for stochastic finite element analysis using the Monte Carlo simulation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example leverages PyMAPDL for stochastic finite element analysis (SFEM) using the Monte Carlo simulation.
```
Let's move the definition of the abbreviation here so it can be used earlier.

This extended example demonstrates numerous advantages and workflow possibilities that PyMAPDL
provides. It explains important theoretical concepts before presenting the example.

Introduction
------------
Often in a mechanical system, system parameters (such as geometry, materials, and loads) and response parameters
(such as displacement, strain, and stress) are taken to be deterministic. This simplification, while sufficient for a
wide range of engineering applications, results in a crude approximation of actual system behavior.

To obtain a more accurate representation of a physical system, it is essential to consider the randomness
in system parameters and loading conditions, along with the uncertainty in their estimation and their
spatial variability. The finite element method is undoubtedly the most widely used tool for solving deterministic
physical problems today. To account for randomness and uncertainty in the modeling of engineering systems,

> the stochastic finite element method (SFEM) was introduced.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SFEM was introduced.
```

SFEM extends the classical deterministic finite element approach
to a stochastic framework, offering various techniques for calculating response variability. Among these,

> the Monte Carlo simulation (MCS) stands out as the most prominent method. Renowned for its versatility and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Monte Carlo simulation (MCS) stands out as the most prominent method. Renowned for its versatility and
```
It doesn't seem an article (the) is generally used before Monte Carlo simulation.

ease of implementation, MCS can be applied to virtually any type of problem in stochastic analysis.

Random variables versus stochastic processes
--------------------------------------------

> This section attempts to explain how random variables and stochastic processes differ. Because these

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section explains how random variables and stochastic processes differ. Because these
```
I'd get rid of the "attempts to" as it implies that what follows might not be good.

concepts are used for modeling the system randomness, explaining them is important. Random variables are easier to
understand from elementary probability theory, which isn't the case for stochastic processes. If the following
explanations are too brief, consult books on SFEM. Both [1]_ and [2]_ are recommended resources.

Random variables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
**Definition:** A random variable is a rule for assigning to every possible outcome :math:`\theta` of an experiment a
number :math:`X(\theta)`. For notational convenience, the dependence on :math:`\theta` is usually dropped and the
random variable is written as :math:`X`.

Practical example
+++++++++++++++++
Imagine a beam with a concentrated load :math:`P` applied at a specific point. The value of :math:`P`
is uncertain. It could vary due to manufacturing tolerances, loading conditions, or measurement errors. Mathematically,

.. math:: P : \Theta \longrightarrow \mathbb{R}

In the preceding equation, :math:`\Theta` is the sample space of all possible loading scenarios, and :math:`\mathbb{R}` represents the set of
possible load magnitudes. For example, :math:`P` could be modeled as a random variable with a probability density

> function (PDF) such as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
function (PDF):
```

.. math:: f_P(p) = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi\sigma^2}}e^{-\frac{(p-\mu)^2}{2\sigma^2}},

Here :math:`\mu` is the mean load, and :math:`\sigma^2` is its variance.

Stochastic processes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
**Definition:**
Recall that a random variable is defined as a rule that assigns a number :math:`X` to every outcome :math:`\theta`
of an experiment. However, in some applications, the experiment evolves with respect to a deterministic parameter :math:`t`,
which belongs to an interval :math:`I`. For example, this occurs in an engineering system subjected to random dynamic loads
over a time interval :math:`I \subseteq \mathbb{R}^+`. In such cases, the system's response at a specific material point is
described not by a single random variable but by a collection of random variables :math:`\{X(t)\}` indexed by :math:`t \in I`. 

> This 'infinite' collection of random variables over the interval :math:`I` is called a stochastic process and is denoted as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This `infinite` collection of random variables over the interval :math:`I` is called a stochastic process and is denoted as
```
The single backtick will result in the word being italicized--which makes it more prominent in the rendered doc than putting it in single quotation marks.

function. Lastly, if :math:`X` is indexed by some spatial coordinate :math:`s \in D \subseteq \mathbb{R}^n` rather than time :math:`t`,
then :math:`\{X(s), s \in D\}` is called a random field.

Practical example
+++++++++++++++++
Consider the material property of the beam, such as Young's modulus :math:`E(x)`, which may vary randomly along
the length of the beam :math:`x`.  Instead of being a single random value, :math:`E(x)` is a random field. Its value
is uncertain at each point along the domain, and it changes continuously across the beam. Mathematically, :math:`E(x)`
is a random field:

.. math:: E(x) : x \in [0,L] \longrightarrow \mathbb{R}

Here:

* :math:`x` is the spatial coordinate along the length of the beam (:math:`x \in [0,L]`).
* :math:`E(x)` is a random variable at each point :math:`x`, and its randomness is described
  by a covariance function or an autocorrelation function.

For example, :math:`E(x)` could be a Gaussian random field, in which case it has the stationarity
property, making its statistics completely defined by its mean (:math:`\mu_E`), standard deviation

> (:math:`\sigma_E`) and covariance function :math:`C_E(x_i,x_j)`. This 'stationarity' simply means

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(:math:`\sigma_E`), and covariance function :math:`C_E(x_i,x_j)`. This 'stationarity' simply means
```

that the mean and standard deviation of every random variable :math:`E(x)` is constant and equal to
:math:`\mu_E` and :math:`\sigma_E` respectively. :math:`C_E(x_i,x_j)` describes how random variables
:math:`E(x_i)` and :math:`E(x_j)` are related. For a zero-mean Gaussian random field, the covariance function is given by
this equation:

.. math:: C_E(x_i,x_j) = \sigma_E^2e^{-\frac{\lvert x_i-x_j \rvert}{\ell}}

Here :math:`\sigma_E^2` is the variance, and :math:`\ell` is the correlation length parameter.

> To aid understanding, the figure below is a diagram depicting two equivalent ways of visualizing a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To aid understanding, the following diagram depicts two equivalent ways of visualizing a
```
We don't want the positional "below" and I don't see any value in saying the "The figure below is a diagram" when we can simply say "The following diagram".

stochastic process or random field, that is, as an infinite collection of random variables or as a
realization or sample function assigned to each outcome of an experiment.

.. figure:: realizations.png

   A random field :math:`E(x)` viewed as a collection of random variables or as realizations.

.. note::

>   The concepts in the preceding sections generalize to more dimensions, for example, a random vector instead of a random

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The concepts in the preceding topics generalize to more dimensions, for example, a random vector instead of a random
```
I try to save use of the word "section" to refer to the list appearing in the doc in the left navigation pane (labeled "Section Navigation").  They entries in the right navigation pane (labeled "On this page") are then referred to as topics.

  variable, or an :math:`\mathbb{R}^d`-valued stochastic process. A detailed discussion of these generalizations can be
  found in [1]_ and [2]_.

Series expansion of stochastic processes
----------------------------------------
Since a stochastic process involves an infinite number of random variables, most engineering applications
involving stochastic processes are mathematically and computationally intractable if there isn't a way of
approximating them with a series of a finite number of random variables. The next section explains
the series expansion method used in this example.

Karhunen-Loève (K-L) series expansion for a Gaussian process
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The K-L expansion of any process is based on a spectral decomposition of its covariance function. Analytical
solutions are possible in a few cases, and such is the case of a Gaussian process.

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove the extra line.

 
   k_{s,n} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{a-\frac{\sin(2\omega_{s,n}\cdot a)}{2\omega_{s,n}}}}

In the preceding terms, :math:`\omega_{s,n}` is obtained as the solution of

.. math:: \frac{1}{b}\cdot\tan(\omega_{s,n}\cdot a) + \omega_{s,n} = 0 \quad \text{in the range} \quad \biggl[(n-\frac{1}{2})\frac{\pi}{a}, n\frac{\pi}{a}\biggr]
   :label: sine equation

It is worth mentioning that :math:`\lambda` and :math:`\omega` in the series expansion are referred to as eigenvalue and frequency respectively.

.. note::
  In the case of an asymmetric domain, such as :math:`\mathbb{D}=[-t_{min},t_{max}]`, a shift parameter :math:`T = (t_{min}+t_{max})/2` is required and the corresponding
  symmetric domain becomes defined by this equation:

  .. math:: D' = D - T = \biggl[\frac{t_{min}-t_{max}}{2}, \frac{t_{max}-t_{min}}{2} \biggr]

  The series expansion is then defined by this equation:

  .. math:: X(t) = \sum_{n=1}^\infty \sqrt{\lambda_{c,n}}\cdot\varphi_{c,n}(t-T)\cdot\xi_{c,n} + \sum_{n=1}^\infty \sqrt{\lambda_{s,n}}\cdot\varphi_{s,n}(t-T)\cdot\xi_{s,n},\quad t\in\mathbb{D}

The K-L expansion of a Gaussian process has the property that :math:`\xi_{c,n}` and :math:`\xi_{s,n}` are independent

> standard normal variables, that is they follow the :math:`\mathcal{N}(0,1)` distribution. The other great property is

Reviewer 2: Consider omitting "great" or using a different (more descriptive) adjective.

changes to

.. math:: \pmb{K}(\pmb{\xi})\pmb{U}(\pmb{\xi}) = \pmb{F}(\pmb{\xi})

Here :math:`\pmb{\xi}` collects sources of system randomness. The Monte Carlo simulation for solving the preceding equation
consists of generating a large number of :math:`N_{sim}` of samples :math:`\pmb{\xi}, i=1,\dots ,N_{sim}` from their probability
distribution and for each of these samples solving the deterministic problem:

.. math:: \pmb{K}(\pmb{\xi}_{(i)})\pmb{U}(\pmb{\xi}_{(i)}) = \pmb{F}(\pmb{\xi}_{(i)})

The next step is to collect the :math:`N_{sim}` response vectors :math:`\pmb{U} := \pmb{U}(\pmb{\xi}_{(i)})` and perform a statistical
postprocessing to extract useful information such as mean value, variance, histogram, and
empirical PDF.

Problem description
-------------------
The following plane stress problem shows a two-dimensional cantilever structure under a point load.

.. figure:: problem.png

   A two-dimensional cantilever structure under a point load.

:math:`P` is a random variable following the Gaussian distribution :math:`\mathcal{N}(0,1)` (kN), and the modulus of elasticity is a
random field given by this expression:

.. math:: E(x) = 10^5(1+0.10f(x)) (kN/m^2)

> with :math:`f(x)` being a zero mean stationary Gaussian field with unit variance. The covariance function for :math:`f` is :math:`C_f(x_r,x_s)=e^{-\frac{\lvert x_r-x_s \rvert}{3}}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here :math:`f(x)` is a zero mean stationary Gaussian field with unit variance. The covariance function for :math:`f` is :math:`C_f(x_r,x_s)=e^{-\frac{\lvert x_r-x_s \rvert}{3}}`.
```

1. Using the K-L series expansion, generate 5000 realizations for :math:`E(x)` and perform Monte 
   Carlo simulation to determine the PDF of the response :math:`u`, at the bottom right corner 
   of the cantilever. 

2. If some design code stipulates that the displacement :math:`u` must not exceed :math:`0.2 \: m`, how confident can

>    one be that the structure meets this requirement?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   you be that the structure meets this requirement?
```
You should use "one" but "you".

.. note::

>   This example strongly emphasizes how PyMAPDL can help to supercharge workflows. At a very high level, subsequent sections 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This example strongly emphasizes how PyMAPDL can help to supercharge workflows. At a very high level, subsequent topics 
```

4. For each simulation, loop through the elements and for each element, use the generated 
   realization to assign the value of the Young's modulus. Also assign the load for each simulation.

5. Solve the model and store :math:`u` for each simulation.

.. note::
  One realization continuously varies with :math:`x`, but a plane stress element like PLANE182 can only have a constant
  Young's modulus assigned. Therefore, for an element whose :math:`x`-coordinates are between :math:`x_1` and :math:`x_2`, you can simply
  assign the average value of :math:`E` between these two values or assign the value of :math:`E` at the centroid. The later is
  chosen for this implementation. The method chosen becomes insignificant with a finer mesh as both methods should produce similar
  results.

This function implements the preceding steps:

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 444-556

You can pass the required arguments to the defined function to run the simulations:

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 559-569

Answering problem questions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To determine the PDF of the response :math:`u`, you can perform a statistical post-processing of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To determine the PDF of the response :math:`u`, you can perform a statistical postprocessing of
```

simulation results:

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 571-582

.. figure:: pdf.png

>    The PDF of response :math:`u`

Reviewer 2: Is this a caption? If so, it should have a concluding period. If not, words seem to be missing.

> To answer the second question, simply evaluate the probability that the response :math:`u` is less than

Reviewer 2: This still confuses me. What is the first question? I see only this question: If some design code stipulates that the displacement :math:`u` must not exceed :math:`0.2 \: m`, how confident can one be that the structure meets this requirement?

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 584-586

The computed probability is approximately 99%, which is a measure of how well the structure satisfies the design
requirement.

.. note::
   Splitting the overall implementation of this example into several functions lets you modify practically any aspect of the problem
   statement with minimal edits to the code for testing out other scenarios. For example, you can use a different structural geometry, mesh size, or loading condition.

Improve simulation speed using multi-threading
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
One of the main drawbacks of MCS is the number of simulations required. In this example, 5000 simulations can take quite
some time to run on a single MAPDL instance. To speed things up, you can use the
:class:`~ansys.mapdl.core.pool.MapdlPool` class to run simulations across multiple
MAPDL instances:

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 589-738

To run simulations over 10 MAPDL instances, call the preceding function with appropriate arguments:

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 741-758

The simulations are completed much faster.

.. tip::

>    In a local test, using the MapdlPool approach (with 10 MAPDL instances) takes about 38 minutes to run, while a single instance runs 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   In a local test, using the ``MapdlPool`` approach (with 10 MAPDL instances) takes about 38 minutes to run, while a single instance runs 
```

.. _stochastic_fem_example:

Stochastic finite element method with PyMAPDL
=============================================

This example leverages PyMAPDL for stochastic finite element analysis via the Monte Carlo simulation.
Numerous advantages / workflow possibilities that PyMAPDL affords users is demonstrated through this
extended example. Important theoretical concepts are first explained before the example is presented.

Introduction
------------
Often in a mechanical system, system parameters (geometry, materials, loads, etc.) and response parameters
(displacement, strain, stress, etc) are taken to be deterministic. This simplification, while sufficient for a
wide range of engineering applications, results in a crude approximation of actual system behaviour.

To obtain a more accurate representation of a physical system, it is essential to consider the randomness
in system parameters and loading conditions, along with the uncertainty in their estimation and their
spatial variability. The finite element method is undoubtedly the most widely used tool for solving deterministic

> physical problems today and to account for randomness and uncertainty in the modeling of engineering systems,
> the stochastic finite element method (SFEM) was introduced.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
physical problems today. To account for randomness and uncertainty in the modeling of engineering systems,
the stochastic finite element method (SFEM) was introduced.
```

The stochastic finite element method (SFEM) extends the classical deterministic finite element approach
to a stochastic framework, offering various techniques for calculating response variability. Among these,
the Monte Carlo simulation (MCS) stands out as the most prominent method. Renowned for its versatility and
ease of implementation, MCS can be applied to virtually any type of problem in stochastic analysis.

> Random variables vs stochastic processes
> ----------------------------------------
> A distinction between random variables and stochastic processes is attempted in this section. Explaining these
> concepts is important since they are used for modelling the system randomness. Random variables are easier to
> understand from elementary probability theory, the same cannot be said for stochastic processes. Readers are
> advised to consult books on SFEM if the explanation here seems too brief. [1]_ and [2]_ are recommended resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Random variables versus stochastic processes
--------------------------------------------------
This section attempts to explain how random variables and stochastic processes differ. Because these
concepts are used for modeling the system randomness, explaining them is important. Random variables are easier to
understand from elementary probability theory, which isn't the case for stochastic processes. If the following
explanations are too brief, consult books on SFEM. Both [1]_and [2]_are recommended resources.
```

Random variables
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
**Definition:** A random variable is a rule for assigning to every possible outcome :math:`\theta` of an experiment a
number :math:`X(\theta)`. For notational convenience, the dependence on :math:`\theta` is usually dropped and the
random variable is written as :math:`X`.

Practical example
+++++++++++++++++
Imagine a beam with a concentrated load :math:`P` applied at a specific point. The value of :math:`P`

> is uncertain—it could vary due to manufacturing tolerances, loading conditions, or measurement errors. Mathematically,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is uncertain. It could vary due to manufacturing tolerances, loading conditions, or measurement errors. Mathematically,
```

:math:`P` is a random variable:

.. math:: P : \Theta \longrightarrow \mathbb{R}

> where :math:`\Theta` is the sample space of all possible loading scenarios, and :math:`\mathbb{R}` represents the set of
> possible load magnitudes. For example, :math:`P` could be modeled as a random variable with a probability density

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the preceding equation, :math:`\Theta` is the sample space of all possible loading scenarios, and :math:`\mathbb{R}` represents the set of
possible load magnitudes. For example, :math:`P` could be modeled as a random variable with a probability density
```
While the construction you use is common in white papers, it is difficult to read online. It helps if the content is written as full sentences rather than fragments.

> function (PDF) such as:

Reviewer 2: Earlier PDF was used but not defined. Ensure that the first reference defines it.

.. math:: f_P(p) = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi\sigma^2}}e^{-\frac{(p-\mu)^2}{2\sigma^2}},

where :math:`\mu` is the mean load, and :math:`\sigma^2` is its variance.

Stochastic processes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
**Definition:**

> recall that a random variable is defined as a rule that assigns a number :math:`X` to every outcome :math:`\theta`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Recall that a random variable is defined as a rule that assigns a number :math:`X` to every outcome :math:`\theta`
```

of an experiment. However, in some applications, the experiment evolves with respect to a deterministic parameter :math:`t`,
which belongs to an interval :math:`I`. For example, this occurs in an engineering system subjected to random dynamic loads
over a time interval :math:`I \subseteq \mathbb{R}^+`. In such cases, the system's response at a specific material point is
described not by a single random variable but by a collection of random variables :math:`\{X(t)\}` indexed by :math:`t \in I`. 

> This 'infinite' collection of random variables over the interval :math:`I` is called a stochastic process and is denoted as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

This 'infinite' collection of random variables over the interval :math:`I` is called a stochastic process and is denoted as
```
Suggesting a paragraph break here as is too much text for one paragraph for online content.

> :math:`\{X(t), t \in I\}` or simply :math:`X`. In this way, a stochastic process generalizes the concept of a random variable,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:math:`\{X(t), t \in I\}` or simply :math:`X`. In this way, a stochastic process generalizes the concept of a random variable
```

as it assigns to each outcome :math:`\theta` of the experiment a function :math:`X(t, \theta)`, known as a realization or sample
function. Lastly, if :math:`X` is indexed by some spatial coordinate :math:`s \in D \subseteq \mathbb{R}^n` rather than time :math:`t`,
then :math:`\{X(s), s \in D\}` is called a random field.

Practical example
+++++++++++++++++

> Now, consider the material property of the beam, such as Young's modulus :math:`E(x)`, which may vary randomly along

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider the material property of the beam, such as Young's modulus :math:`E(x)`, which may vary randomly along
```

> the length of the beam :math:`x`.  Instead of being a single random value, :math:`E(x)` is a random field—its value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the length of the beam :math:`x`.  Instead of being a single random value, :math:`E(x)` is a random field. Its value
```

is uncertain at each point along the domain, and it changes continuously across the beam. Mathematically, :math:`E(x)`
is a random field:

.. math:: E(x) : x \in [0,L] \longrightarrow \mathbb{R}

Here:

* :math:`x` is the spatial coordinate along the length of the beam (:math:`x \in [0,L]`).
* :math:`E(x)` is a random variable at each point :math:`x`, and its randomness is described
  by a covariance function or an autocorrelation function.

For example, :math:`E(x)` could be a Gaussian random field, in which case it has the stationarity
property, making its statistics completely defined by its mean (:math:`\mu_E`), standard deviation
(:math:`\sigma_E`) and covariance function :math:`C_E(x_i,x_j)`. This 'stationarity' simply means
that the mean and standard deviation of every random variable :math:`E(x)` is constant and equal to
:math:`\mu_E` and :math:`\sigma_E` respectively. :math:`C_E(x_i,x_j)` describes how random variables

> :math:`E(x_i)` and :math:`E(x_j)` are related. For a zero-mean Gaussian random field, the covariance function is given by:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:math:`E(x_i)` and :math:`E(x_j)` are related. For a zero-mean Gaussian random field, the covariance function is given by
this equation:
```
Style guide says to finish the sentence before the colon.

.. math:: C_E(x_i,x_j) = \sigma_E^2e^{-\frac{\lvert x_i-x_j \rvert}{\ell}}

> where :math:`\sigma_E^2` is the variance, and :math:`\ell` is the correlation length parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here :math:`\sigma_E^2` is the variance, and :math:`\ell` is the correlation length parameter.
```

> To aid understanding, the figure below is a diagram depicting two equivalent ways of visualizing a
> stochastic process / random field, that is, as an infinite collection of random variables or as a
> realization/sample function assigned to each outcome of an experiment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To aid understanding, the following diagram depicts two equivalent ways of visualizing a
stochastic process/random field, that is as an infinite collection of random variables or as a
realization/sample function assigned to each outcome of an experiment.
```
It's really hard for the reader (and especially me who doesn't have the needed technical knowledge) to understand the use of the backslashes between words. (This is generally true for all usages, as it leaves you having to decipher whether it means "and" or "or" instead. It really helps to write out what is meant.

.. figure:: realizations.png

>    A random field :math:`E(x)` viewed as a collection of random variables or as realizations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   A random field :math:`E(x)` viewed as a collection of random variables or as realizations.
```

.. note::

>   The concepts in the preceding sections generalize to more dimensions, for example, a random vector instead of a random
>   variable, or an :math:`\mathbb{R}^d`-valued stochastic process. The preceding presentation is however
>   sufficient for this example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The concepts in the preceding sections generalize to more dimensions, such as to a random vector instead of a random
  variable or to an :math:`\mathbb{R}^d`-valued stochastic process. However, these generalizations are
  sufficient for this example.
```

Author: I rephrased this to reflect what I tried communicating more succinctly.

Series expansion of stochastic processes
----------------------------------------
Since a stochastic process involves an infinite number of random variables, most engineering applications
involving stochastic processes are mathematically and computationally intractable if there isn't a way of
approximating them with a series of a finite number of random variables. A series expansion method used in
this example is explained next.

> The Karhunen-Loève (K-L) series expansion for a Gaussian process
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> More generally, the K-L expansion of any process is based on a spectral decomposition of its covariance function. Analytical
> solutions are possible in a few cases, and such is the case of a Gaussian process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Karhunen-Loève (K-L) series expansion for a Gaussian process
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The K-L expansion of any process is based on a spectral decomposition of its covariance function. Analytical
solutions are possible in a few cases, and such is the case of a Gaussian process.
```

For a zero-mean stationary Gaussian process, :math:`X(t)`, with covariance function
:math:`C_X(t_i,t_j)=\sigma_X^2e^{-\frac{\lvert t_i-t_j \rvert}{b}}` defined on a symmetric domain :math:`\mathbb{D}=[-a,a]`,

> the K-L series expansion is given by:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the K-L series expansion is given by this equation:
```

.. math:: X(t) = \sum_{n=1}^\infty \sqrt{\lambda_{c,n}}\cdot\varphi_{c,n}(t)\cdot\xi_{c,n} + \sum_{n=1}^\infty \sqrt{\lambda_{s,n}}\cdot\varphi_{s,n}(t)\cdot\xi_{s,n},\quad t\in\mathbb{D}
   :label: K-L expansion

> where,

Reviewer 2: The explanations of variables for the preceding equation are really hard to comprehend. Based on earlier suggestions, perhaps you can explain in full sentences?

Author: Thanks for this, incorporated your suggestion.

.. math:: 
   :label: cosine terms

   \lambda_{c,n} = \frac{2b}{1+\omega_{c,n}^2\cdot b^2},\quad \varphi_{c,n}(t) = k_{c,n}\cos(\omega_{c,n}\cdot t)

   k_{c,n} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{a+\frac{\sin(2\omega_{c,n}\cdot a)}{2\omega_{c,n}}}}

where :math:`\omega_{c,n}` is obtained as the solution of

.. math:: \frac{1}{b} - \omega_{c,n}\cdot\tan(\omega_{c,n}\cdot a) = 0 \quad \text{in the range} \quad \biggl[(n-1)\frac{\pi}{a}, (n-\frac{1}{2})\frac{\pi}{a}\biggr]
   :label: cosine equation

and,

.. math:: 
   :label: sine terms

   \lambda_{s,n} = \frac{2b}{1+\omega_{s,n}^2\cdot b^2},\quad \varphi_{s,n}(t) = k_{s,n}\sin(\omega_{s,n}\cdot t)
 
   k_{s,n} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{a-\frac{\sin(2\omega_{s,n}\cdot a)}{2\omega_{s,n}}}}

where :math:`\omega_{s,n}` is obtained as the solution of

.. math:: \frac{1}{b}\cdot\tan(\omega_{s,n}\cdot a) + \omega_{s,n} = 0 \quad \text{in the range} \quad \biggl[(n-\frac{1}{2})\frac{\pi}{a}, n\frac{\pi}{a}\biggr]
   :label: sine equation

It is worth mentioning that :math:`\lambda` and :math:`\omega` in the series expansion are referred to as eigenvalue and frequency respectively.

.. note::

>   In the case of an asymmetric domain, for example, :math:`\mathbb{D}=[-t_{min},t_{max}]`, a shift parameter :math:`T = (t_{min}+t_{max})/2` is required and the corresponding
>   symmetric domain becomes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  In the case of an asymmetric domain, such as :math:`\mathbb{D}=[-t_{min},t_{max}]`, a shift parameter :math:`T = (t_{min}+t_{max})/2` is required and the corresponding
  symmetric domain becomes defined by this equation:
```

  .. math:: D' = D - T = \biggl[\frac{t_{min}-t_{max}}{2}, \frac{t_{max}-t_{min}}{2} \biggr]

>   And the series expansion becomes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 The series expansion is then defined by this equation:
```

  .. math:: X(t) = \sum_{n=1}^\infty \sqrt{\lambda_{c,n}}\cdot\varphi_{c,n}(t-T)\cdot\xi_{c,n} + \sum_{n=1}^\infty \sqrt{\lambda_{s,n}}\cdot\varphi_{s,n}(t-T)\cdot\xi_{s,n},\quad t\in\mathbb{D}

The K-L expansion of a Gaussian process has the property that :math:`\xi_{c,n}` and :math:`\xi_{s,n}` are independent
standard normal variables, that is, they follow the :math:`\mathcal{N}(0,1)` distribution. The other great property is
that :math:`\lambda_{c,n}` and :math:`\lambda_{s,n}` converge to zero fast (in the mean square sense). For practical implementation,
this means that the infinite series of the K-L expansion is truncated after a finite number of terms, giving the approximation:

.. math:: X(t) \approx \hat{X}(t) = \sum_{n=1}^P \sqrt{\lambda_{c,n}}\cdot\varphi_{c,n}(t)\cdot\xi_{c,n} + \sum_{n=1}^Q \sqrt{\lambda_{s,n}}\cdot\varphi_{s,n}(t)\cdot\xi_{s,n}
   :label: approximation

Equation :math:numref:`approximation` is computationally feasible to handle. A summary of how to use it to generate realizations of :math:`X(t)` follows:

> 1. To generate the j-th realization, draw a random value for each :math:`\xi_{c,n}, n=1,\dots ,P, \quad \xi_{s,n}, n=1,\dots ,Q` from the standard

Reviewer 2: Use #. rather than actual steps. To display correctly in the rendered doc, you need to indent the math and note directive to where the next for the numbered step starts.

Author: They are sequential steps and based on your previous suggestion, I think they should be numbered.

It actually displays correctly after building the doc in my local environment, did you face any issues in your local environment with how this part is being rendered?

Reviewer 2: It would render fine as is. It's just that using the #. formatting means that if there was ever a need to insert a step, you wouldn't have to manually renumber subsequent steps.

Author: Noted. Not having to renumber helps save time. For sure in more general cases, that is the ideal way to go.

I have tried using #. for this scenario too but I was unable to reproduce the same rendering I get with numbers.

The current way with numbers:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c0374a4c-cd57-4e62-a809-30d7fa51df0c)

With #. but without indenting `.. math::`:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/48834c8c-8965-4b88-b5ef-5327ba60821d)

I thought not indenting `.. math::` is the reason why the numbering resets after the equation, so with indentation:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d64e179e-a335-4a0b-8131-c924bb7842b2)

   normal distribution :math:`\mathcal{N}(0,1)` and obtain :math:`\xi_{c,1}^j,\dots ,\xi_{c,P}^j, \quad \xi_{s,1}^j,\dots ,\xi_{s,P}^j`

2. Insert these values into equation :math:numref:`approximation` in other to obtain the j-th realization:

.. math:: \hat{X}^j(t) = \sum_{n=1}^P \sqrt{\lambda_{c,n}}\cdot\varphi_{c,n}(t)\cdot\xi_{c,n}^j + \sum_{n=1}^Q \sqrt{\lambda_{s,n}}\cdot\varphi_{s,n}(t)\cdot\xi_{s,n}^j

> 3. To generate additional realizations, simply draw new random values for :math:`\xi_{c,n}, n=1,\dots ,P, \quad \xi_{s,n}, n=1,\dots ,Q` each from :math:`\mathcal{N}(0,1)`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. To generate additional realizations, simply draw new random values for :math:`\xi_{c,n}, n=1,\dots ,P, \quad \xi_{s,n}, n=1,\dots ,Q` each from :math:`\mathcal{N}(0,1)`.
```

.. note::
  In this case of a field, the preceding discussion applies as the only difference is a change in notation (for example :math:`t` to :math:`x`).

The Monte Carlo simulation
--------------------------

> For linear static problems in the context of FEM, the system equations which must be solved change from

Author: I implemented this with a twist. I kept the 'from' because it indicates the equations to be solved changing **from** one form **to** another.

.. math:: \pmb{K}\pmb{U} = \pmb{F}

> to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
changes to
```
I didn't know how to change this to paragraph form easily, so I basically left it as is.

.. math:: \pmb{K}(\pmb{\xi})\pmb{U}(\pmb{\xi}) = \pmb{F}(\pmb{\xi})

> where :math:`\pmb{\xi}` collects a sources of system randomness. The Monte Carlo simulation for solving the preceding equation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here :math:`\pmb{\xi}` collects sources of system randomness. The Monte Carlo simulation for solving the preceding equation
```

consists of generating a large number of :math:`N_{sim}` of samples :math:`\pmb{\xi}, i=1,\dots ,N_{sim}` from their probability

> distribution and for each of these samples, solving the deterministic problem

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
distribution and for each of these samples solving the deterministic problem:
```

.. math:: \pmb{K}(\pmb{\xi}_{(i)})\pmb{U}(\pmb{\xi}_{(i)}) = \pmb{F}(\pmb{\xi}_{(i)})

The next step is to collect the :math:`N_{sim}` response vectors :math:`\pmb{U} := \pmb{U}(\pmb{\xi}_{(i)})` and perform a statistical

> post-processing to extract useful information such as mean value, variance, histogram,
> empirical pdf/cdf, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
postprocessing to extract useful information such as mean value, variance, histogram,
and empirical pdf/cdf.
```
CDF hasn't been defined.

Problem description
-------------------

> In the following plane stress problem

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following plane stress problem shows a two-dimensional cantilever structure under a point load.
```

.. figure:: problem.png

>    A two-dimensional cantilever structure under a point load

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   A two-dimensional cantilever structure under a point load.
```

> :math:`P` is a random variable following the Gaussian distribution :math:`\mathcal{N}(0,1)` (kN) and the modulus of elasticity is a
> random field given by the expression:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:math:`P` is a random variable following the Gaussian distribution :math:`\mathcal{N}(0,1)` (kN), and the modulus of elasticity is a
random field given by this expression:
```

.. math:: E(x) = 10^5(1+0.10f(x)) (kN/m^2)

> with :math:`f(x)` being a zero mean stationary Gaussian field with unit variance. The covariance function for :math:`f` is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here :math:`f(x)` is a zero mean stationary Gaussian field with unit variance. The covariance function for :math:`f` follows:
```

.. math:: C_f(x_r,x_s)=e^{-\frac{\lvert x_r-x_s \rvert}{3}}

> The following are required:
> 
> 1. Using the K-L series expansion, generate 5000 realizations for :math:`E(x)` and perform Monte 
>    Carlo simulation to determine the probability density function of the response :math:`u`, at the bottom right corner 
>    of the cantilever. 
> 
> 2. If some design code stipulates that the displacement :math:`u` must not exceed :math:`0.2 \: m`, how confident can
>    one be that the structure meets this requirement?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following are required:

1. Using the K-L series expansion, generate 5000 realizations for :math:`E(x)` and perform Monte 
   Carlo simulation to determine the probability density function of the response :math:`u` at the bottom right corner 
   of the cantilever. 

2. If some design code stipulates that the displacement :math:`u` must not exceed :math:`0.2 \: m`, how confident can
   you be that the structure meets this requirement?
```
The following what are required? The second one is a question. I'm not sure the introduction is clear or appropriate. Also, are the points sequential? If not, a bulleted rather than a numbered list should be used.

.. note::

>   This example really emphasizes how PyMAPDL can help to supercharge workflows. At a very high level, subsequent sections 
>   involves using python libraries to handle computations related to the stochasticity of the problem, and using MAPDL to
>   run the necessary simulations, all within the comfort of a python environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This example strongly emphasizes how PyMAPDL can help to supercharge workflows. At a very high level, subsequent sections 
  use Python libraries to handle computations related to the stochasticity of the problem and use MAPDL to
  run the necessary simulations all within the comfort of a Python environment.
```

> Evaluating the young modulus
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Evaluating the Young's modulus
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

> Firstly, code that allows representation of the zero-mean Gaussian field :math:`f` is first implemented. This simply means solving
> :math:numref:`cosine equation` and :math:numref:`sine equation`, then substituting calculated values into
> :math:numref:`cosine terms` and :math:numref:`sine terms` to obtain the constant terms in those equations. The
> number of retained terms :math:`P` and :math:`Q` in :math:numref:`approximation` can be automatically determined
> by structuring the code to stop computing values when :math:`\lambda_{c,n}, \lambda_{s,n}` become lower than a
> desired accuracy level. The implementation is as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Code that allows representation of the zero-mean Gaussian field :math:`f` is implemented. This simply means solving 
the :math:numref:`cosine equation` and :math:numref:`sine equation` and then substituting calculated values into
:math:numref:`cosine terms` and :math:numref:`sine terms` to obtain the constant terms in those equations. The
number of retained terms :math:`P` and :math:`Q` in :math:numref:`approximation` can be automatically determined
by structuring the code to stop computing values when :math:`\lambda_{c,n}, \lambda_{s,n}` become lower than a
desired accuracy level. The implementation follows:
```

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 23-202

> The next step is to put this all together in a function that expresses :math:`f` using equation :math:numref:`approximation`
> as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next step is to put this all together in a function that expresses the :math:`f` using the :math:numref:`approximation` equation:
```

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 205-265

> And then the function for evaluating the young modulus itself is straight forward:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The function for evaluating the Young's modulus itself is straight forward:
```

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 268-295

> Realizations of the young modulus
> +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Realizations of the Young's modulus
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```

> Sample realizations of the young's modulus can now be generated to see how they look like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sample realizations of the Young's modulus can now be generated to see what they look like:
```

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 298-348

.. figure:: young_modulus_realizations.png
   

>    10 realizations of the young's modulus depicting randomness from one realization to another

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   10 realizations of the young's modulus depict randomness from one realization to another.
```
Our style guide says figure captions should have concluding punctuation.

Verification of the implementation
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

> The theoretical mean and variance of the young modulus can be computed and this can be used to verify the correctness
> of the implemented code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The theoretical mean and variance of the Young's modulus can be computed and then used to verify the correctness
of the implemented code.
```

For the mean:

.. math::
  :label: theoretical mean

  \mathbb{E}(E) = \mathbb{E}(10^5(1+0.10f))

  \mathbb{E}(E) = 10^5(1 + 0.1\mathbb{E}(f))

  \mathbb{E}(E) = 10^5(1 + 0.1(0)) = 10^5 \: kN/m^2

For the variance:

.. math::
  :label: theoretical variance

  Var(E) = \mathbb{E}(E^2) - [\mathbb{E}(E)]^2

  Var(E) = \mathbb{E}[10^{10}(1 + 0.2f + 0.01f^2)] - 10^{10}

  Var(E) = 10^{10}[1 + 0.2\mathbb{E}(f) + 0.01\mathbb{E}(f^2)] - 10^{10}

  Var(E) = 10^{10}[0.2(0) + 0.01(1)]

  Var(E) = 10^8 \: {kN}^2/m^4

It is expected that as the number of realizations increase indefinitely, the ensemble mean and
variance should converge towards theoretical values calculated in :math:numref:`theoretical mean` and :math:numref:`theoretical variance`.

Firstly, several realizations are generated. 5000 is enough, which is the same as the number of simulations to be run later on. Statistical processing
is then performed on these realizations.

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 350-385

> A plot of the mean vs the number of realizations can be generated:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can generate a plot of the mean versus the number of realizations:
```

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 387-397

.. figure:: mean.png
   

>    Convergence of the mean to the true value as the number of realizations is increased

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The mean converges to the true value as the number of realizations is increased.
```

And also a plot of the variance vs the number of realizations:

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 399-409

.. figure:: variance.png

>   Convergence of the variance to the true value as the number of realizations is increased

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The variance converges to the true value as the number of realizations is increased.
```

> The preceding plots confirms that the implementation is indeed correct. If one desires more accuracy, the minimum eigenvalue
> can be further decreased but the value already chosen is sufficient.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The preceding plots confirm that the implementation is correct. If you desire more accuracy, you can further decrease the minimum eigenvalue, but the value already chosen is sufficient.
```

> Running the simulations
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> Now focus shifts to the PyMAPDL part of this example. Remember that the problem requires running 5000 simulations. Therefore, there is need
> to write a workflow that does the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Running the simulations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Focus now shifts to the PyMAPDL part of this example. Remember that the problem requires running 5000 simulations. Therefore, you must write a workflow that performs these actions:
```
Use #. for the steps.

> 1. Create the geometry of the cantilever model
> 
> 2. Mesh the model. For this, 4-node PLANE182 elements is going to be used
> 
> 3. Generate one realization of :math:`E` and one sample of :math:`P` for each simulation
> 
> 4. For each simulation, loop through the elements and for each element, use the generated 
>    realization to assign the value of the young's modulus. Also assign the load for each simulation.
> 
> 5. Solve the model and store :math:`u` for each simulation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Create the geometry of the cantilever model.

#. Mesh the model. The following code uses the four-node PLANE182 elements.

#. For each simulation, generate one realization of :math:`E` and one sample of :math:`P`.

4. For each simulation, loop through the elements and use the generated 
   realization for each element to assign the value of the Young's modulus. Also assign the load for each simulation.

5. Solve the model and store :math:`u` for each simulation.
```

.. note::

>   One realization continuously varies with :math:`x` but a plane stress element like PLANE182 can only have a constant
>   young modulus assigned. Therefore, for an element whose :math:`x`-coordinates are between :math:`x_1` and :math:`x_2`, one can simply
>   assign the average value of :math:`E` between these two values or assign the value of :math:`E` at the centroid. The later is
>   chosen for this implementation. The method chosen becomes insignificant with a finer mesh as both methods should produce similar
>   results.
> 
> A function implementing the preceding steps follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  One realization continuously varies with :math:`x`, but a plane stress element like PLANE182 can only have a constant
  Young's modulus assigned. Therefore, for an element whose :math:`x`-coordinates are between :math:`x_1` and :math:`x_2`, you can simply
  assign the average value of :math:`E` between these two values or assign the value of :math:`E` at the centroid. The later is
  chosen for this implementation. The method chosen becomes insignificant with a finer mesh as both methods should produce similar
  results.

This function implements the preceding steps:
```

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 444-556

> Required arguments can be passed to the defined function to run the simulations:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can pass the required arguments to the defined function to run the simulations:
```

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 559-569

Answering problem questions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To finish answering the first question (simulations have already been run), a statistical post-processing of 
> simulation results can performed to determine the probability density function of the response :math:`u`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To finish answering the first question (whether simulations have already been run), you can perform
a statistical postprocessing of simulation results to determine the PDF of the response :math:`u`:
```

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 571-582

.. figure:: pdf.png

>    The probability density function of response :math:`u`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The probability density function of response :math:`u`.
```

To answer the second question, simply evaluate the probability that the response :math:`u` is less than
:math:`0.2 \: m`:

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 584-586

The computed probability is approximately 99%, which is a measure of how well the structure satisfies the design
requirement.

.. note::

>    The overall implementation of this example was split into several functions so users can modify practically any aspect of the problem
>    statement with minimal edits to the code for testing out other scenarios. For example, different structural geometry,
>    different mesh size, different loading condition etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Splitting the overall implementation of this example into several functions lets you modify practically any aspect of the problem
   statement with minimal edits to the code for testing out other scenarios. For example, you can use a different structural geometry, mesh size, or loading condition.
```

Improving simulation speed via multi-threading
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
One of the main drawbacks of MCS is the number of simulations required. In this example, 5000 simulations can take quite

> some time to run on a single MAPDL instance. To speed things up, the :class:`~ansys.mapdl.core.pool.MapdlPool` class can be utilized
> to run simulations across multiple MAPDL instances. The implementation is as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
some time to run on a single MAPDL instance. To speed things up, you can use the
:class:`~ansys.mapdl.core.pool.MapdlPool` class to run simulations across multiple
MAPDL instances:
```

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 589-738

> To run simulations over 10 MAPDL instances, the preceding function is simply called with appropriate arguments:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run simulations over 10 MAPDL instances, call the preceding function with appropriate arguments:
```

.. literalinclude:: sfem.py
  :language: python
  :lines: 741-758

> Now the simulations can be completed much faster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The simulations are completed much faster.
```

.. tip::

>    In a local test, using the MapdlPool approach (with 10 MAPDL instances) took about 38 minutes to run, while a single instance run 
>    lasted for about 3 hours. The simulation speed depends on a multitude of factors but this comparison provides an idea of the speed
>    gain to expect when utilizing multiple instances.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   In a local test, using the MapdlPool approach (with 10 MAPDL instances) takes about 38 minutes to run, while a single instance run 
   lasts for about 3 hours. The simulation speed depends on a multitude of factors, but this comparison provides an idea of the speed
   gain to expect when using multiple instances.
```
